# Introducing LCT

Local Contact Tracing is a grassroots effort to reduce the risk of community spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19 and its variants).

LCT accomplishes this goal by focusing users into areas where *the odds of interacting with other is highest*.

> LCT complements all other mitigation strategies. For example, a bi-product of LCT is a list of places the user has visited in the last fourteen days. Human contact tracers can use this data to do their part.

## Essential LCT

LCT has two design principles:

* protect your privacy
* be simple as possible (and no simpler)

This section has two parts. First, we outline how data flows through LCT to keep communities safe from the viurs. Next, we summarize the three steps and two user interfaces visitors use to meet this goal.

### Workflow

Here is the simplest scenario for communities at risk:

* Two strangers log visits in LCT to the same space at the same time
* One visitor later tests positive
* That visitor uses LCT to send an exposure warning to the server
* The server alerts the other stranger who shared that same space and time
* The exposed visitor get tested right away

This COVID early warning system works better as more people use LCT. That is, when more visits are logged on the LCT server graph, more exposed visitors can get tested. Those who test positive send their own exposure warning to the community. This minimizes the opporturnities for the virus to mutate and spread.

With LCT on guard, the virus (even those more dangerous COVID-19 variants) simply has no where to go.

### User Interface

LCT works because it links space and time to individuals going about their business. Visits start with a (public) `space` so the first user interface is a *map*. Visitors can specify a place by clicking the map or by entering the name of the place in a text field.

The second step is to specify a `time interval` for the visit. Visitors use a *calendar* interface to manage the time span for the visit.

The third step is to send this space-time data to a server. Visitors select a calendar event and use the `Tab` key or the `graph button` at the bottom of the calendar to log the visit on the server.

Should a visitor test positive, they use the `Warning` button on LCT to send a message to the server of all the places visited in the last two weeks. The server stores this data in a graph, and it uses a graph algorithm to alert other contemporaneous visitors of possible exposure to the virus.

## VuePress

We used Vuepress to build this LCT documentation. Since LCT is designed to be replicated (at least as fast as the virus), use this information to bring your own LCT online as soon as possible.

VuePress is composed of two parts: a [minimalistic static site generator](https://github.com/vuejs/vuepress/tree/master/packages/%40vuepress/core) with a Vue-powered [theming system](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/theme/) and [Plugin API](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/plugin/), and a [default theme](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/theme/default-theme-config.html) optimized for writing technical documentation. It was created to support the documentation needs of Vue's own sub projects.

Each page generated by VuePress has its own pre-rendered static HTML, providing great loading performance and is SEO-friendly. Once the page is loaded, however, Vue takes over the static content and turns it into a full Single-Page Application (SPA). Additional pages are fetched on demand as the user navigates around the site.
